(10 pts) Part 3 - Analyze the data using SQL
For SQL we decided to answer the questions how the olympics affected the GDP and employment rate
of the team with the least amount of wins. So across the board, countries with few gold medals 
to their name tended to do worse in both gdp and employment when compared to their peers.
Growth in gpd and improvement in unemplyment rates typically followed a neutral or upward trend
if not impacted by a freak issue like war in the country, a global pandemic, or recession
but the speed that which it happened was definately noticeable. Now just beacuse there is
correlation doesnt mean there is causation as poorer countries typically have less resources
to invest into training athletes and thus may have a rough time competing on the global stage.
comparing athletes from countries like the US to honduras may not be fair as the difference in 
training quality could be so great. Ultimately poorer countries usually have bigger problems to
tackle than sports so although there seems to be a relationship between the amount of medals won
and the gdp / unemplyment rate of a country, it cannot be definatively concluded that the olympics
caused it.

(15 pts) Part 4 - Analyze the data using Python
So while using python we decided to analyze the gdp fluctuations of countries hosting
the summer olympics. Now in order to limit the amount of factors affecting our data we
decided to sample 3 summer olympics hosts being Spain, The United States, and South
Korea from the years 1980-1992 to avoid the most amount of significant economic events
such as the 2008 recession and Covid. Typically when a coutry hosts the olympics, they
spend alot of time and money building facilities to accomadate for the events such as
gyms, stadiums, parking lots, and estates for the athletes. All this development creates
jobs within the country and promotes things like tourism which can temporarily boos the 
earnings of a country. The problem emerges however after the games are over since many
facilities are left into disrepair much to the dismay of the host country such as was the
case in 2008 after the Beijing olympics. That being said after, looking at all the gdp 
development within the 8 year time period of their olympic hosting, we almost always
saw a staedy increase in GDP (save for some freak outside influences like covid). Now 
unfortunately, just because we found a correlation doesnt mean we can conclude it was 
causation. Many more things go into a countries economy other than contruction and tourism
so to say that the olympics was the sole cause of a countries growth would be irresponsible.
Additionally, the olympics tend to almost always be hosted in a country with a strong and
growing economy just like the west so ultimately there is no baseline to tell if the olympics 
really had much of an impact. All in all, there is simpy too much to come to a sure conclusion
of if the olympics affects a host countries economy but the data we anayzed tends to lean to
yes it does.


(15 pts) Part 5 - Analyze the data using R
With the R code we decided to answer how the olympics affected the gdp and uemployment rate 
of the country that won the most amount of medals. throughout all the olympic competions, the
countries that consistently led in the total number of gold medals won were also leaders in
gdp and unemployment rate. Again, a linear trend was observed if we account for years that
freakishly affected the economy. now just because a country won gold medals doesnt mean it was 
the reason for its growth. more than likely, the fact that the country was already wealthy to 
begin with likely was the contributing factor to why it was able to win so many medals. Thes
surplus of resources means that a country would be able to better support an athletes training
for the olympics. The United States almost always ranked at the top and its position as the worlds
richest country is likely no coincidence. Again although there is correlation, there is no way to
tell if there is causation as many other factors could have determined this outcome.